[MUSIC]
Hello everyone.
In this video we will analyze
the Crowdflower competition.
We, I mean me, Stanislav Semenov and
Dmitry Altukhov participated as a team and
took second place.
I will explain most important parts of
our solution along with some details.
The outline of the video is as follows.
First, I will tell you about the contest
itself, what kind of data and
metrics were provided.
After that we will discuss are approach,
features and tricks.
And then I will summarize what is worth
to kind of look for on the competition.
Some of the competition were
organized by CrowdFlower Company.
The goal of this competition is to measure
relevance of the search results given
the queries and resulting product
descriptions from living e-commerce sites.
The task is to evaluate the accuracy
of their search algorithms.
The challenge of the competition is
to predict the relevance score of
a given query and problem description.
On the picture we see assessor's
user interface, which has a query,
a search query, and
some information about an item.
Assessors were asked to give each
query-product pairing a score of 1,
2, 3, or 4, with 4 indicating the item
completely satisfied the search query,
and 1 indicating the item doesn't match.
As the training data, we have only
median and variance of these scores.
Data set consists of three text fields,
request query,
result and products title,
and product description,
and two columns related to the target,
median and variance of scores.
To ensure that the algorithm is robust
enough to handle any HTML snippets
in the real world, the data provided in
the program description field is raw and
sometimes contain permissions
that is relevant to the product.
For example,
a string of text or object IDs.
To discourage hand-labeling, the actual
set was augmented with extra data.
This additional data was
ignored to when the public and
private leaderboard
scores were calculated.
And of course, campaign scores have
no idea which objects we had already
used to calculate the scores.
So we have 10,000 samples in train, and
20,000 in test, but it's good data.
I mean, validation works well and
local scores are close enough
to leaderboard scores.
Effective solutions, non-standard metric
was used, quadratic weighted kappa.
Let's take a closer look at it.
You can find a detailed description of the
metric on the competition evaluation page.
We have already discussed the metric
in our course, but let me recall it.
Submissions are scored based on the
quadratic weighted kappa which measures
the agreement between two ratings.
This metric typically will rise from 0,
random agreement between raters, to 1,
complete agreement between raters.
In case there is less agreement between
the raters than expected by random,
the metric may go below 0.
In order to understand the metric,
let's consider an example
of how to calculate it.
First, we need N by n confusion matrix C,
which constructed and normalized.
Our vertical axis by its failures,
or horizontal predicted failures.
In our case, N is equal to 4 as
the number of possible ratings.
Second we need N by n histogram
matrix of expected matrix E,
which is calculated assuming that there
is no correlation between ratings cost.
This is calculated as within
histogram vectors of ratings.
Also we need N by N matrix of weights, W,
which is calculated based
on its elements positions.
This particular formula for weights uses
square distance between indexes i and
j, so this is why the method is
called quadratic weighted kappa.
Finally, kappa can be calculated as one
minus a fraction of this weighted sum
of confusion matrix in the numerator,
and weighted sum of expectation
matrix in the denominator.
I want to notice that kappa has properties
similar both to classification loss and
regression loss.
The more distant predicted and
true ratings are,
the more penalties there will be.
Remember that thing,
we will use it later in our video.
Okay, let's now talk
about my team solution.
It's turned out to be quite complex,
consisting of several parts.
Like extending of queries, per-query
models, bumper features, and so on.
I will tell you about main points.
So let's start with text features.
We have three text fields, a query,
a title, and a description.
You can apply all techniques that
we discuss in our course and
calculate various measures of similarity.
That's exactly what we did.
That is for query title and query
description pair, we calculated the number
of magic words, cosine distance
between TF-IDF representations,
distance between the average word2vec
vectors, and Levensthein distance.
In fact, this is a standard set of
features that should be used for
similar task.
And there is nothing outstanding.
The support should be
considered as a baseline.
And now we turn to the interesting things.
In addition, we found it was
useful to use symbolic n-grams.
You can work with them in
the same way as with word-based,
if each letter is interpreted
as a separate word.
We use symbolic n-grams from one letter,
to five letters.
After getting a large parse metrics of
n-grams, we apply it as to them, and
took only close to 300
combinations as features.
You remember we discussed this portion
of our course, there is an example.
Looking at the data we notice
three interesting properties.
Queries are very short,
numbers of unique queries is 261,
and queries are the same in train and
test sets.
We decided to use these observations
to build extended versions of query
as follows.
For each query, we get the most
relevant corresponding items,
those with relevance equal to four.
We join all words from the title
of the relevant items and
take ten most popular words.
This is what we called extended query and
it's used to build all these text
features that I mentioned earlier.
Notice that this trick is applicable
only within the context framework.
Due to the fact that queries in test
are exactly the same as in train.
In real life we couldn't do so
because it's unrealistic to ignore
relevant results for every search query.
The fact that sets of queries in train and
test are the same,
give us an opportunity to split our
problem into many small subtasks.
Specifically, for each query,
you can build a separate model that
will only predict relevance
of corresponding items.
Again, in real life, such tricks can't be
applied, but within the context framework,
it's totally fine.
So, for each unique query,
we get corresponding samples,
calculate work to work similarities,
back and forth presentation, and
fit a random fourth classifier.
Finally, we have 261 model
which predictions were used as
a feature in final example.
Do remember that every product
item is by several people.
Median in a variance of the ratings.
The variance show in ratings
are inconsistent or not.
Intuitively, if the variance is large,
then such an object need to be taken
into account with a smaller weight.
One way to do it is to assign items
weight depending on query answers,
which was a heuristics 1 /
1 + variance as the weight.
Another method is to restore
individual observation using median and
variance statistics.
We found that supposing
there are three assessors,
we can almost always certainly
restore our original labels.
For example,
if we have a median equal to three, and
variance equal to 0.66,
there of course are two, three, and four,
which by this approach and for
each source sample, generated three once.
However, using them as training
data took longer to train, and
did not improve the score.
And simple heuristic works quite well,
and they use it in final solution.
In the competition, you need to choose
a metric, we need to predict class,
but penalty for
the error is not symmetric.
We decided to take it into account,
adding several artificially created binary
delimiters between classes as features.
In other words, we're trying to
classify to answer the question,
is it true that target class number is
greater than 1, greater than 2, and so on.
We call these features bumpers, since they
are kind of separators between classes.
We build them in fashion, similar to
how we construct predictions instead.
It was very useful for the final solution.
All mentioned features will
be used in an ensemble.
We build several models on
different subsets of features.
Some feel relatively simple like SVM and
some look quite complex.
You can see the part of
complex model created by me.
It uses bumper features,
all sorts of similarities and
query features in different combinations.
Also there is a lot of frostage models,
which are mixed up with
second stage random forest.
In fact, each participant of the team
made his own model, and then for
competition we simply mixed our
model linearly for final submission.
Let's remember that the metric on the one
hand has some proper classification
It's necessary to predict the class.
But for regression answer,
we can analyze more.
We have built models for regression, but
we have had to somehow turn
real-valued predictions into classes.
A simple approach with would work poorly,
so we decided to pick up thresholds.
For the purpose, we were right.
Thresholds and choose the best one
weighted on cross-validation score.
The buff procedure gave us a very
significant increase in quality.
in fact it often happens in competitions
with non-standard metrics that [INAUDIBLE]
grades symmetric optimization
gives a significant improvement.
So let's sum up.
In the competition it was really
important to use the [INAUDIBLE] ideas.
First symbolic and grams, once since
they give a significant increase in
the score and it was not solved
that you should use that.
Second, expansion of queries led to
significant increase in this course.
Also optimization of thresholds was
a crucial part of our solution.
I hope you will re-use some of these
tricks in your competitions, though.
Thank you for the attention.
[MUSIC]